welcome back friends so in this video of
socket programming i'm going to
discuss about the git
host by name in the previous video we
discussed about this gate hostname
and today i'm going to discuss about the
gate host
by name using this
api uh we can understand like after
after whatever value will be returned by
the gate host by name and that is a
structure
basically a pointer to this structure
hosting
so this will be written hosting after
the call to get host by name
using this api call you can find out
various things like
first thing is like what kind of address
it supports what kind of address family
it will support like
if it is afi net or if it is like af net
bios
and then you can find out like
what is the ip address of your
machine where your server is going to be
running
right so based on the name of the
machine you can find out that what are
the
addresses that have been assigned to it
so it's not only
like your own machine it can be any
machine like if that machine is on the
network and your program is running
and you get the machine name
as an input in your program then also
you can find out
that particular machine and you can find
out that
how uh what are the various parameters
that are supported by the
uh separate machine by the other machine
right uh you can find out if it is uh
with this family like if the family of
the address if the address type family
for the
machine is a finite or you can find out
what what is the
address and what are the ip addresses
assigned to that machine
if only one ipad is assigned then only
one ip address will be visible here
right and uh these are the important
things uh and apart from that uh there
are many other things like there
there is the alias uh you can print the
alias names as well like
what are what are the other names for
this host name so all those things are
very important
uh sometimes you need them in your
program whenever you are
developing your socket server and client
program
in that case you may need this
information very often right so
to use that information how to properly
use that api
i have just prepared this video for you
okay so rest of the things
before you start calling this gate force
by name
rest of the things are the same you need
to call this wss startup i have already
told you in the previous video
and then here i have
called the function gate hostname to get
my own host name
that is the machine name where my
program is running right
so this is my personal machine where my
server is running right so
i will just get the name of my host
using the guest host by name
once you get the host name in this
variable sj host name
then you can call this function get host
by name
in the gate host by name you need to
pass the name of the host
once you pass the name of the host and
if this
function is returning successfully then
it will return a pointer to this
hosting test trick which is the remote
host right i have created a variable of
pointer variable of remote host name so
this will be returned here and in this
remote host all the information like
what are the aliases names
and what is the address type if you have
to access the address type you need to
address this edge underscore under type
variable
and if you have to access the aliases
then you need to go to this like p
alias is equal to aliases you will start
from the base address of the aliases
array
and then you can move ahead in the area
of the aliases and
it will keep printing the alias names of
this boost
okay and this is the address type which
is afi net or init bios whatever
it comes this will print and then we are
just
printing the name of the printing the
length of the host name
right remote host dot length what is the
length of the
address or you can say the
what is the length of the uh
name of the machine right so that will
be printed here
and then we are looking into if if this
is
any finite type of address then in that
case we are just going to
print the various ip addresses that have
been assigned to this
remote host right in my case only one ip
address can
is visible because there are no subnet
and anything i have configured so it's
only an independent ip address which
will be visible to you
and this loop will run only once and you
will be able to see
the address here right so this is not a
net bios machine this is it will not
return any net bios type of address so
you will be able to see
only one address which will be simply a
finite address
so let's run it and let's just put a
break point
just for the confirmation that whatever
we are
getting that is fine or not so here i
need to put the breakpoint
debug and uh place the brick toggle
breakpoint so i'm putting the breakpoint
here and now i'm just going to start it
right so here i can see that hostname
is correct it is coming here
i have shown you in the previous video
itself and now we are coming to this
gate host by
name and here i am getting uh alias
right of all the remote hosts and all
the
address type basically i'm getting a
very
i'm getting a return type of this austin
test trick
this type right so hosting testing type
is for this remote host and i'm getting
the
remote i'm getting the remote host name
so
here i'm just checking if my remote host
name was correct and
i got everything fine then in that case
what i will do i will
just iterate through the aliases and
let's see how many aliases are there
right so there are no aliases there is
only one which was the name of my
machine so it will not print anything
now i'm going to see what is the address
type so this is iafinet so it will print
afine
here right afinite has been printed here
now we
move to the next one which is the length
of the address
so the address is four right so
length of the address is four and then
address type is a finite then i'm
in that case i'm just going to iterate
through all the ip addresses that have
been assigned to my machine
so there is only one ip address so it
will print only one ip address which is
192.168.1.4
right so so this is working fine so it
is giving me all the
things that i need so rather than giving
any hard coded values if i am creating
my own server i can provide these values
to the srv structure which is the
instruct
sock editor if you remember this is the
address structure where we store the
information about the server so this is
the name of the server
sort and sock and editor in and here
based on the values that have been
written i will just
print it like syn family i will put af
underscore in it
and then
based on the address what i will do srv
dot
dot syn port i'm giving any port right
uh like uh
h2 ns i can give any port 9999
any port i can give and then srv dot
syn editor dot s underscore editor
is equal to this a double dr
right so this will be assigned to this
address so rather than providing it to
something else i think that
has been given there so editor is at the
top
so i need underscore a to
n2a okay so
okay i just need to provide like
a double dr dot
s underscore editor that i have found
here
right so this will be assigned to this
one and then
the last thing was mem set
if you don't remember what i'm doing
here you can just
go to the previous videos in the same
playlist and you can see that how i was
developing my server the socket server
in um in c
plus right in the same playlist you can
see i think it is a only
second or third video where you will
find all these things
so you can see there and you will find
that what i am doing here and why
this is needed right basically this srv
structure is needed to bind to a port
and
start listening right so here i'm just
going to do something srv dot
sin0 and then it's like
with which you are going to fill it it's
like four
it's like zero and then what is the size
eight is the size
i'm filling everything with the zero so
here i'm just going to provide
address of this srv dots in zero
right then what we can do we can just
call the socket
and and socket
is equal to socket
af underscore init and
sock underscore stream
and then you can give 0 which is the tcp
protocol by default
and now if you try to bind it now you
will be able to bind everything
correctly so here i am going to just
give i result
is equal to bind
and n socket
and struct
[Music]
and you need to pass
address of srv and then what is the last
argument
size of srv
right so that is the length so we just
need to see if my
bind call is successful or not and then
we will just see
if i result call is successful or not so
our result is equal to li s t e n
listen if it is able to start listening
so
n socket and then
10 we can listen up to 10 so it is fine
so let's see
uh whether i result returns correct
value i mean if it returns 0 then it
means that our bind call is successful
and if it returns minus 1 then it means
that our calls are not successful
and if if our bind and lesson calls are
successful then rest of the calls
that we use to call rest of the api
calls that we use
to create that server they all will be
successful like select call or the
any other call they will be successful
right so let's see if bind and listen
calls are successful or not
so let me put the breakpoint here
insert the breakpoint and just remove
the breakpoint from here
disable the breakpoint and enable the
breakpoint here so let's run it
press f5
so let us see everything should be fine
now
let me see if f10 what does f10 returns
let me just
move to the next statement so this is
returning -1 okay
so this is not yet fine
so let me see why it is not working fine
so
what was the problem
i think it's like i need underscore
and to a then only should work fine
it should be only this
and here i think it should be like
this one
okay let me see why it is not working
fine
i need underscore n2a
i need underscore address
and this one is used here
okay so this should be
init underscore n
to a and then let's pass
this a double dr
now let's see what happens so this
returns sunset long which is fine so
let's see
let's run it again
and let's see what happens next
still minus one so
okay so there is some problem and the
problem is around
this only the port only i think there is
some other call i'm missing
due to which it is not binding
so i need to just check that one so in
the next video i will let you know that
why it is
returning -1 and what is the fix for
this so
the main purpose was to explain you
about this gate host name git host by
name
and in the next video you will see that
what is the fix for this issue
okay so in the next video i'm surely
going to fix this one
so you just need to take care of these
concepts that i have explained it to you
related to the
get host by name okay so stay tuned with
me for the next video because in the
next video i'm going to fix this
i need to check what is what what the
wrong angry
okay and then in the next video we will
fix it
have a nice day and bye